# Arizona Weapons Laws

# 1875
> Arizona--Legislative Assembly, Acts, Resolutions and Memorials adopted by the
Eighth Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Arizona. Arizona Memory
Project, accessed 03/09/2025, https://azmemory.azlibrary.gov/nodes/view/88878


### An Act
To amend an act entitled "To prevent the improper use of Deadly Weapons and the
indiscriminate use of fire-arms in the Towns and Villages of the Territory;
approved September 30th, 1867."

> Section 1. Section one of an act entitled "An act to prevent
the improper use of deadly weapons, and the indiscriminate
use of fire-arms in Towns and Villages of the Territory ,
approved September 30th, 1867," is amended to read as follows:

> ยง 1. Any person in this Territory having, carrying, or procuring from another
person, any dirk, dirk-knife, bowie-knife, pistol, gun, or other deadly weapon,
who shall in the presence of two or more persons draw or exhibit any of said
deadly weapons in a rude, angry, or threatening manner, not in necessary
self-defense, or who shall in any manner unlawfully use the same in any fight
or quarrel, the person or persons so offending, upon conviction thereof in any
Justice's Court in any County in this Territory, shall be fined in any sum, not
less than one hundred nor more than three hundred dollars, or imprisonment in
the County jail not less than one nor more than six months, in the discretion
of the court, or both such fine and imprisonment, together with the costs of
prosecution.

> Sec. 2. Section three of said act is amended to read as follows:

> Sec. 3. It shall be the duty of all Sheriffs, Deputy Sheriffs, Constables,
and all peace officers and private citizens to see that the provisions of this
act are enforced, by informing on all persons violating its provisions, by
having them arrested and brought before the proper officer for trial and
punishment.

> Sec. 3. Section four of said act is hereby repealed.

> Sec. 4. This act shall take effect immediately.

> Approved February 12th, 1875.

# 1867
> Arizona--Legislative Assembly, Acts, Resolutions and Memorials adopted by the
Fourth Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Arizona. Arizona Memory
Project, accessed 03/09/2025, https://azmemory.azlibrary.gov/nodes/view/88874

### An Act
*To prevent the improper use of Deadly Weapons and the Indiscriminate use of
Fire Arms in the Towns and Villages of the Territory*

> Section 1. That any person in this Territory, having, carrying or procuring
from another person, any dirk, dirk knife, bowie knife, pistol, gun, or other
deadly weapon, who shall in the presence of two or more persons, draw or
exhibit any of said deadly weapons in a rude, angry or threatening manner, not
in necessary self defence, or who shall in any manner unlawfully use the same
in any fight or quarrel, the person or persons so offending upon conviction
thereof in any criminal court. in any county of this Territory, shall be fined
in any sum not le than one hundred nor more than five hundred dollars or
imprisonment in the county jail not less than one nor more than six months, in
the discretion of the court; or both such fine and imprisonment, together with
the cost of prosecution.

> Sec. 2. That any person or persons having or carrying any pistol or gun who
shall in the public streets or highways discharge the same indiscriminately,
thereby disturbing the peace and quiet, and endangering the lives of the
inhabitants of any town or neighborhood in this Territory, such person or
persons upon conviction thereof before any Justice of the Peace in the county
where such offence may be committed shall be fined in any sum not less than ten
nor more than fifty dollars and imprisonment in the county jail not less than
two nor more than ten days, in the discretion of the Justice of the Peace,
together with the cost of prosecution.

> Sec. 3. It shall be the duty of all sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, constables,
and all peace officer and private citizens to see that the provisions of
section second of this act are enforced, by informing on all persons violating
its provisions, by having them arrested and brought before the proper officer
for trial and punishment.

> Sec. 4. It is hereby made the duty of all civil and peace officers in this
Territory to be diligent in carrying into effect the provisions of section one
of this act, as well as all grand juries, or grand jurors, to enquire into and
make presentment of each and every offence against the provisions of said
section one of this act which shall come within their knowledge. And it is also
made the duty of all judges in within this Territory to give said section one
in charge of the grand juries at each term of their respective courts.

> Sec. 5. This a.ct shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.

> Approved September 30, 1867

### An Act
*To Amend and Re-enact Chapter Fifty-two, Howell Code, "Of the
Incorporation of Villages."*

> SEC. 25 The Council shall have power to appoint all other officers necessary
under the provisions of this chapter for said villages, whose elections are not
herein provided for; to make by-laws and ordinances relative to the duties,
powers, and fees of the Marshal, Treasurer, Assessor, and other officers; ...
relative to the keeping and sale of gunpowder; ...

> Approved October 3, 1867

# 1864
## Howell Code
> William T. Howell, The Howell code : adopted by the first legislative
assembly of the territory of Arizona. Arizona Memory Project, accessed
03/09/2025, https://azmemory.azlibrary.gov/nodes/view/38227

[Bill of Rights](data/az/1864/howeel-frag-1.pdf)
> Art.5 The right of the people to keep and bear arms for their own defence and
that of the government, shall not be infringed.

[Chapter X. Fifth Division](data/az/1865/howell-frag-2.pdf)
> Sec. 41. If any person shall hereafter challenge another to fight a duel with
any deadly weapon, or in any manner whatever, the probable issue of which might
result in the death of either; or if any person shall accept a challenge or
agree to fight a duel, every person so offending shall., upon conviction
thereof, be punished by imprisonment in the Territorial prison for any term not
exceeding three years nor less than one year, and be fined in a sum not
exceeding one thousand dollars.

[Chapter X. Ninth Division](data/1864/howell-frag-3.pdf)
> Sec. 98. If any person shall carry to any convict imprisoned or in custody,
or into any county jail or other place where such convict may be confined, any
tool, weapon, or other aid, with intent to enable such convict to escape such
custody or confinement, whether such escape be effected or not, any person so
offending, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
five thousand dollars, and imprisonment in the Territorial prison not exceeding
five years.

[Chapter X. Tenth Division](data/az/1864/howell-frag-4.pdf)
> Sec. 129. If any person shall be found having upon him or her any picklock,
crow, key-bitt, or other instrument or tool, with intent feloniously to break
and enter into any dwelling-house, store, shop, warehouse, or other building
containing valuable property, or shall be found in any of the aforesaid
buildings with intent to steal any money, goods, and chattels, every person so
offending shall, on conviction thereof, be imprisoned in the county jail not
more than two years; and if any person shall have upon him any pistol, gun,
knife, dirk, bludgeon, or other offensive weapon, with intent to assault any
person, every such person, on conviction, shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars or imprisoned in the county jail not more than three months.

[Chapter XI. Part 7 (Of Special Proceedings)](data/az/1864/howell-frag-5.pdf)
> Sec. 633. When a person charged with a felony is supposed by the magistrate
before whom he is brought to have on his person a dangerous weapon or anything
which may be used in evidence of the commission of the offence, the magistrate
may direct him to be searched in his presence, and the weapon or other thing to
be retained subject to his order, or to the order of the court in which the
defendant may be tried.
